

A.  Drive shaft encoder

The encoder wheel clamps around the drive shaft, using
four 6-32 x 3/4 screws with lock nuts.  The parts were
made using a nominal drive shaft diameter of 3.00 inches.
A millimeter either way is noticeable, so it is likely that
an adjustment of the diameter used to print the parts will
be needed.

The photodetectors are based on reflection and sense the
presence/absence of the segment.  The ideal spacing is
35 mils (0.7 mm, i.e. ~ 1 mm).  100 mils (2.5 mm) has the
response down to 0.3 from the peak.

If the tolerances will be too close to be practical for 
the reflective type photodetectors the interrupt type might
help.

1.  How well does encoder fit the shaft diameter?

    -  Too tight or too loose?
    -  Drive shaft counterweight cutout position correct?
    -  Wobble or eccentricity?

2.  What is the gap between the encoder segments and 
    the bottom of the enclosure?
    
    -  If touching, will unscrewing the magnet studs 
       provide a small gap (ideal 1 mm)?  The stud
       length allows about a 3 mm adjustment.
       
3.  Do the segments show through the window?

    When mounted, the cutout in the electronics enclosure 
    for the photodetectors should be covered when the
    encoder segments pass by.

B. Fairlead encoders

Similar to drive sensors the photodetectors for the
two fairlead encoders require close tolerance.

The "frame" mounts between the fairlead sheave bearings
with magnets.  For the magnet studs, the washers & nuts 
were inserted as the part was being printed.

The frame has a small bump on the long cross-bar that
marks the midpoint.  That should be in line laterally, 
with a line between the bearing centers, and the 
and longitudinally halve way bewteen the bearing blocks.

The electronics enclosure mounts to the frame with self-
tapping screws.

1.  Diameter of the encoder discs OK?
   
    The two photodetector windows should see the 
    encoder segments cover the window as they
    come by.

2.  Height

    Gap too large--

    The encoder discs can be raised by placing a spacer
    between the encoder disc hub and the mag mount.

    Gap too small--

    The spaces between the electronics enclosure and the
frame can be inserted.


