1/7/2017
Notes: 3-D printer workshop at USF

jnussbaum@mail.usf.edu
anthonyross@mail.usf.edu

- Patents are expiring and low cost machines will be encorporating the features.

- Include mico-drill for cleaning the nozzle--probably never will need.  Easy to break.  
  Easy to scratch nozzle hole and that causes thread to curl.

- Leveling bed:  The most important part of the setup and the largest cause of failures of the printed part.

- Spinning one motor (z axis) will cause the other motor to move also, so hold the other motor when
  adjusting the lead screw (to adjust horizontal guides for x axis motion.

- The lead screw (z axis) should not have to be touched after initial setup.

- Base plate cover wears out eventually.  Spare is included.  There are other options covered later (???)

- Nozzles are replaceable.  Be careful about not scratching them.

- A couple of "old guys" attending gave a short talk on the following which they are involved--

http://enablingthefuture.org/upper-limb-prosthetics/

Something said that I didn't catuch about AIO Robotics 

-  "Hot end" - term for the nozzle end 

  thermisters used on nozzle and bed for temp control.  Special nozzles/head for high temp use thermocouples.

-  If there is a jam the feed gear digs into the filament and the teeth clog up so it won't feed.
   Use a dental pick (cheap online) to clean the teeth.  Probably not needed.  Long periods where
   the head is set too clos to the bed plate might cause this.

   Most likely with PLA.  Not so much with ABS.

-  Heated bed (for warping)

   Not so important for PLA, but since present use it.

  PETG and ABS need a heated bed.

-  Plastics

   3.0 mm was early standard.  1.75 mm now most popular.
   Not much quality control for cheap China products.
   Lots of types with fillers such as wood, conductive, thermochromatic.  Metal doesn't quite match sheen
     of metal, but is stronger than filament w/o metal.
     Filler needs to be much smaller than nozzel dia.
   Replacement nozzles are cheap.
   Don't buy filament that does not specify the dia tolerance, or tolerance more than 0.05 mm
   Standard spec: 1.75 +/- 0.05 mm

   (Later: for Slic3R parameters, measure the diameter of your filament at several places
    and average.  0.03 mm makes a big difference.)

   PLA: Bed temp 50-70C
    Best temperature may vary between batches of filament from the same mfgr.
    Brittle, but easy to use.  ABS and PETG better for strength.
   Water soluble filament picks up water with time in FL.

  ABS: Good engineering material
   Warps a lot.  Best for strength
   Some machines have the whole thing in a heated enclosure.  Some outfit has a patent so some enclose 
     everything but the front to get around the patent and let the use close the front.  The Chinese just
     ignore the patent.  Hold 50C would be good enough in a box.
   Warpage isn't much of problem for parts maybe an inch across.  A bit 6" box would be a big problem.
   Not resistant to acetone.  
   "vapor polishing"
      Part in bottle at room temp will take about 2 hrs.
      Avoid youtube demos--most use a crock-pot and heat the acetone.  Part polishes in about 15 secs
        if you don't blow yourself up.
      Polishing other plastics requires chemicals too toxic for home use.

  PETG:  Between ABS and PLA.  Less warpage than ABS and stronger that PLA.

-  1 KG spool of filament will last you a long time.

- Thermochromic filament: changes color from body heat.

- Curve (forgot what the acronym)  weight, and heat input, versus temperature
  glitch in the curve shows where the material goes liquid.
  knee of curve where it turns down is where it too hot and eventually chars.
  They have a machine to test samples.

  Nylon: 260C nozzle is too hot for this machine.  Limit it to 240C

-  Thing universe--the google of 3D

-  stl files
   Developed in the '80s.  amf format is the coming type.  Allows for color selection and other things.

-  Repetier program 
   
   Move the centering of the part around each time so the printer bed cover doesn't wear out in the the middle.

   Nozzle is 0.4mm so can't print a layer width less than that.

   'infill' - 
      7 - 15% saves filament.  Solid is of course the strongest.
      honeycomb is the best, rectangular next best
      j.n. doesn't have much experience with 3D honeycomb.  The layers are offset for more strength.

   The first layer is solid for a good base.  Sometimes "1" is OK, but  "3" maybe needed .
   The top layer may need 4 layers to reduce droop between lattice fill.

   "Skirt" -- outline around the part.
     Primarily needed to assure nozzle filled
     Gets thrown away when part is done
     Sometimes need 2 skirts, but one usually OK.
     Skirt distance: "10" is general.
       One could build a wall around the part with the skirt and keep air/wind off the part.
   "Brim" -- a skirt with a distance of 0.
       Helps anchor down base, but usually don't need.

- Slic3R
   Warp layer - e.g. the Butterfly part that came with the printer SD
    (Skirt comes before warp)

   Speed
     Quality versus time required
     Small circles might require slow speed since previous layer may not have cooled enough.
     Stepper motor skipping.  Parts shift as part builds
       Can sometimes hear clicking.  Bad skipping is a grinding noise.
   
   Correction factor for filament dia shouldn't be more than +/- 10%.  Should be zero if filament size
       entered is correct.  Use digital calipers (cheap $10 ones OK) to measure dia.  0.03 mm has a big
       impact.

   1st layer somewhat hotter than other layers.

   Fan cooling allows longer bridges.  Never have fan on for ABS.

   Head height adjustment (software)
      0.2-0.3 mm makes a big difference.  Printer manual pixs, pg 23,24 are good illustration.

   Filament needed computed by the program is the filament length out-of-the-nozzle and not the input.
     Nozzle is 0.4 mm and input is 1.75 mm.

-  Solidwords software

   It is all based on triangles and there is the issue of "normal face" to understand.




